So, I want to next review the Interplay between the Types of Interface Methods.
Default, Private and Static methods with one another,
and the calling code.
So, to do that we're going to start by creating another class,
TestPrivateInterfaceMethods,
place the code in.
Alright. So, we've got a simple class there, TestStatic
with a single public static method as you can see there.
Moving on down, we've got an interface here,
PrivateAndDefaultTestable and that's got four concrete methods.
The first one, a default method, doInterfaceSomethingPublic,
this calls a private method.
Next, we've got a private method there, doInterfaceSomethingPrivate.
And you can see that just currently, just outputs something.
Moving on down, we've got a public static method,
doInterfaceSomethingPublicAndStatic, calls a private static method.
And finally, we've got a private static method here
called doInterfaceSomethingPrivateAndStatic.
Then scrolling down further, we've got a public class there,
TestPrivateInterfaceMethods, which of course, we created.
And that's extending the TestStatic class from the top, this one up here,
and also it implements the interface we defined,
PrivateAndDefaultTestable.
And it's demonstrating invoking methods on a superclass
and interface in a static context i.e. the static main method.
So, you can see I'm executing a static class method in a static context with andwithout
a class qualifier and also executing a static interface method
in a static context with an interface qualifier.
Alright. So, if we run this code now,
you can see that it works as expected.
Let's append some more code to our main method, down here.
You can see what I've done there,
I'm trying to actually call without qualify even if the current class implements the interface,
and the error I'm getting there, Static method may be invoked
on containing interface class only.
So, unlike a class, the static method on an interface
cannot be accessed without a qualifier
even if the current class implements the interface, which is happening here.
So, let's try something else. I'm going to actually undo that change
and paste in some different code.
And you can see here with this code that I pasted in,
both of these statements have produced a compiler-time error.
Now the first one, if you ever heard over that, gives an interesting error,
PrivateAndDefaultTestable is not an enclosing class.
Hopefully, you remember from the videos in the last section on nested and inner classes
that .super as we're using here,
is a way to access an inner class as members from the enclosing class.
And in the second case, we're attempting to access a non-static default method
in a static context, and as a result,I think this error is easier to understand
than the first one.
Alright. So, let's undo those changes.
I want to look at a non-static context next.
What I'm going to do is append a method
to the test private interface methods class,
so this one here. I'm going to paste that in.
Now looking at this method,
it invokes methods on a superclass and an interface in a non-static context.
So, we start by accessing a non-static class method
in a non-static context with and without a class qualifier.
Scrolling on down further, I'm executing a static interface method
in a non-static context with a class qualifier.
Next, I'm executing a default interface method in a non-static context
with no qualifier.
Then the last one, I'm executing a default interface method
in a non-static context with an interface and using a .super qualifier.
So let's add some code to our main method, so we can test this.
Run the code
and you can see the output showing on screen.
Right, so, let's go back to our test non-static method and paste some code down the
bottom of it.
You can see that's caused the compiler-error, just as it had in the static method,
you cannot call a static method on an interface without a qualifier
in either a static or a non-static context,
regardless of whether the current object implements the interface or not.
And you can see that over there, Static method must be invoked on containing interface class only.
So, let's undo that change.
Alright. Let's see what access has permitted on the interface itself.
We're going to do is go back up to the interface, and we're going to change
this first default method here, doInterfaceSomethingPublic.
So, I'm going to paste in a new version of that method.
So, you can see what I'm doing now, I'm calling the public static method
and the private static method directly
within the interface's default method.
You can see that that compiles fine.
If we run this,
it also executes without any problems.
Alright, so, let's make another change now.
We're going to change the public static method on the interface, this one down here.
doInterfaceSomethingPublicAndStatic.
I'm going to just replace the whole method, but essentially, we're adding another two
codes to other methods. #
So, basically, I've added invocations of the default method and the private instance method
on the interface in the static method.
Straight away, you can see we've got an error here,
Non-static method ‘doInterfaceSomethingPublic’ be referenced from the static context,
and same for our private method.
So, you cannot reference default methods or private non-static methods
from static methods on an interface.
Alright. So, let's just undo that, change again, go back to how it was before,
no longer any errors and the code runs.
Alright.
So, for the exam, it's important
to try and remember the following rules for interface methods.
A static method on an interface is either private if declared private or public if not,
when public is implied.
A static method on an interface is not inherited
by an implementing class and can only be accessed
using an interface type qualifier.
Third, a static method on an interface can invoke
private static methods on an interface,
but it cannot invoke default or private non-static methods.
The default method is public and not static.
It cannot be invoked in a static context.
The default method can invoke any other type of method, static (public or private),
other default methods, and private methods.
A default method can be invoked without a qualifier
in an implementing class, but only in a non-static context.
A default method can be invoked
with a combination of the reference to the interface type and the .super qualifier.
An example here is, TePrivateAndDefaultTestable.Super
.doInterfaceSomethingPublic(), but only in a non-static context.
And lastly, private methods on interfaces are not accessible
to any other type or subtype.
Alright. So, let's end the video here. And in the next one,
we're going to be reviewing things that might crop up on the exam that looks simple,
but are simply hard to notice.
See you in the next video.